1. Set up your APEX Application
Create a new page: Decide which page type suits your needs (e.g., Interactive Report, Form, Chart).
Create a navigation menu: Include a menu item named "Stats" that users can click on to reveal the sliding panel.
2. Design the Sliding Panel Region
Create a new region on the page where you want the sliding panel to appear. Use a region type that supports dynamic visibility and position it off-screen initially.

For example, you can use a "Static Content" region or an "HTML" region.

Configure the region properties:

Ensure it’s initially hidden (Display > Display Condition: False).
Optionally, set CSS classes or styles (Appearance > CSS Classes).
3. Implement JavaScript for Sliding Animation
APEX provides a JavaScript API (apex.util.toggleRegion) that toggles the visibility of a region. You’ll use this to slide the panel in and out.

Here’s a basic example of how you can achieve the sliding effect:

javascript
Копіювати код
$(document).ready(function(){
    // Hide the panel initially (if not hidden by default through APEX settings)
    $('#your-region-static-id').hide();

    // Click event handler for Stats menu item
    $('#stats-menu-item').on('click', function(){
        // Toggle the visibility of the region with sliding animation
        apex.util.toggleRegion('your-region-static-id', {
            useAnimation: true,
            animationType: 'slide'
        });
    });
});
Replace 'your-region-static-id' with the Static ID of your region in APEX.
Replace 'stats-menu-item' with the appropriate selector for your Stats menu item.
4. Customize Content and Styling
Add content: Inside the sliding panel region, add your cards or any other content you want to display.

Styling: Use CSS to adjust the appearance of the sliding panel (Template Options > Custom CSS in APEX or inline styles).

Additional Tips
Handling Responsive Design: Ensure your sliding panel works well on different screen sizes by testing responsiveness.

Performance Considerations: APEX handles basic animations well, but extensive JavaScript or complex interactions might affect performance on slower devices.

Final Steps
Testing: Always test your application thoroughly after implementing such features.

Documentation: Document any custom JavaScript or CSS for future maintenance.

By following these steps, you can create a functional sliding information panel in your Oracle APEX application that appears when users click on the "Stats" menu item. Adjust the specifics according to your application's requirements and design preferences.